Title: Shell Basics Lab Exercise

1. Background

This Labtainer exercise explores the basics of Linux
shell commands. 

2. Performing the lab
The lab is started from the Labtainer working 
directory on your Docker-enabled host, e.g., a Linux VM.
From there, issue the command:

    ./start.py shellbasics

The resulting virtual terminals will include a display of
these instructions, and a bash shell. 

To navigate this instruction, the arrow keys along with 
with the Space/Home/End/Page-Up/Page-Down keys are usable.
To exit navigation of this instruction, type 'q'.

3. Tasks

a) using the 'mkdir' command create a new directory named "MyFolder". Then
with the 'cd' command move into the "MyFolder" directory, and create using
the 'touch' command a new file called "tester.txt". Print the working 
directory by typing 'pwd'. 

hint- follow the command name by the name of the directory or file
	e.g. cd myFolder

b) Next check the date by typing 'date'. Now, append a date to the "tester.txt"
by typing the line below. Type 'cat' followed by "tester.txt" to display it.
	
	date >> tester.txt  

c) Change back to the home directory by typing 'cd ..' or just 'cd' and make a new
directory called "NewFolder". Type just 'ls' to see all the directories and files you
have made in this directory. Change back into your "MyFolder" directory and move your
"tester.txt" file into the "NewFolder" directory by using the 'mv' command as follows.
	
	mv tester.txt ../NewFolder

d) List the contents of the directory you are in now, note how there is no longer an
instance of the "tester.txt" file you made. Move to the "NewFolder" directory and 
using the 'cp' command, copy the "tester.txt" file to your "MyFolder". 

	cp tester.txt ../MyFolder

e) Return to the "MyFolder" directory list its contents and then 
display the contents of the new "tester.txt" file you copied. 
Output a copy of this month's calandar by typing 'cal'. Overwrite the 
contents of "tester.txt" with this by writing the line below. Output it after.

	cal > tester.txt

hint- notice how this contains one carrot instead of two. One carrot overwrites the previous
while two adds to it. 

f) Return to the home directory and list all the directories and files. Try to execute
the python file "RunMe.py" by typing './RunMe.py'. The returned message indicates 
that the file does not have the authority to be run from this status. 
Change the mode it is in by typing the line below and try it again.
	chmod a+x RunMe.py

g) List the contents of your directory and notice there is a file called "readthis.txt".
Try typing these two commands before the name of the file and notice how each
differently displays the contents: 'more' , 'less'. Finally, type 'rm' before the
"readthis.txt" file to delete it.



4. Stop the Labtainer

When the lab is completed, or you'd like to stop working for a while, run

    ./stop.py shellbasics

from the host Labtainer working directory.  You can always restart the
Labtainer to continue your work.  When the Labtainer is stopped, a
zip file is created and copied to a location displayed by the stop.sh
command.  When the lab is completed, send that zip file to the instructor.


