Title: Telnet Lab Exercise

1. Background

This Labtainer exercise illustrates the use of a telnet client to
access resources on a server.  It is a simple lab intended
to illustrate basic client-server networking and the transmission
of plaintext passwords over a network by telnet.

2. Performing the lab
The lab is started from the Labtainer working 
directory on your Docker-enabled host, e.g., a Linux VM.
From there, issue the command:

    ./start.sh telnetlab

The resulting virtual terminals include a display of
these instructions, a terminal connected to a client, and a
terminal connected to a server.

To navigate this instruction, the arrow keys along with 
with the Space/Home/End/Page-Up/Page-Down keys are usable.
To exit navigation of this instruction, type 'q'.

3. Tasks

3.1. Determine the server IP address
In the server window, type "ifconfig" to view the IP address of the server.
The server IP address will follow the "inet adddr:" label.

3.2. Telnet to telnet server and display a file on the server

Use the telnet command to access the server using its IP address:

    telnet <ip>

You will be prompted for a user ID at a login prompt, and then a password.
Both of them are: "ubuntu".

There is a pre-created file on the server named 'filetoview.txt'.

View the file content by doing a 'cat filetoview.txt'.

Exit the telnet session on the client via the "exit" telnet command.

3.3. View plaintext passwords.
On the server, start tcpdump to display TCP network traffic with this command:
    sudo tcpdump -i eth0 -X tcp

On the client, start a telnet session, but when prompted for the password, 
type "mydoghasfleas".  Observe that string in the tcpdump
of traffic.

3.4 Use ssh to protect communications with the server
Use the ssh command to access the server using its IP address:
    ssh <ip>
The first time you ssh to a server, ssh will warn you that the
"authenticity of the host... can't be established".  Type "yes"
at the prompt.

View the file content by doing a 'cat filetoview.txt'.

Observe the tcpdump output, and note there is no readable plain text.

4. Stop the Labtainer

When the lab is completed, or you'd like to stop working for a while, run

    ./stop.sh telnetlab

from the host Labtainer working directory.  You can always restart the
Labtainer to continue your work.  When the Labtainer is stopped, a
zip file is created and copied to a location displayed by the stop.sh
command.  When the lab is completed, send that zip file to the instructor.

