nmap -sP 172.25.0.0/24

Title: Nmap Lab Exercise

1. Background

This Labtainer exercise uses nmap and skills exercised in
previous Labtainer labs to identify and exploit a weakness
in a system

You are performing ad-hoc security testing for client who
believes that their internal ssh server is relatively secure, but
would like you to confir it.  Your goal is to attempt to remotely
access that ssh server and disclose the content of a selected
file.

2. Performing the lab

The lab is started from the Labtainer working directory on your
Docker-enabled host, e.g., a Linux VM.  From there, issue the
command:

	start.py nmap-ssh

The resulting virtual terminals will include a display of these
instructions, and bash shell on a computer called "MyComptuter".
Nmap is pre-installed on that computer.  You will also have a
virtual terminal connected to a "router", and a bash shell there.
You have been told that the router sits between  the
organization's client workstations and the servers.

To navigate this instruction, the arrow keys along with the
Space/Home/End/Page Up/Page Down keys are usable. To exit
navigation of this instruction, type 'q'.

3. Tasks

You have been told the target ssh server IP address is
172.25.0.2, and the ssh port number frequently changes within the
range of 2000-3000.  You have been given an account, "analysis" 
on a client computer and on the router.

    client computers <===>[ Router ]<===> servers

Your goal is to successfully ssh from mycomputer into the "ubuntu" 
account on the ssh server.

Hints:  
    nmap is installed on mycomputer.
    tshark and tcpdump are installed on the router
    What other password-protected network services are being used
    on the network, and by which user?

4. Stop the Labtainer

When the lab is completed, or you'd like to stop working for a
while, run

	stop.py nmap-ssh

from the host Labtainer working directory. You can always restart
the Labtainer to continue your work. When the Labtainer is
stopped, a zip file is created and copied to a location displayed
by the stop.py command. When the lab is completed, send that zip
file to the instructor.
