Title: VPN Lab Exercise (host-to-host VPN)

1. Background

This Labtainer exercise illustrates a simple
host-to-host vpn implemented with openvpn, and
a static shared key.

The example network includes a client and a 
server with a router between them.  The server
offers a simple HTTP service,  and the student
will use wget on the client to retrieve html
files from the server.

The openvpn application is pre-installed
on the client and the server, and the
corresponding openvpn configurtion files
already exist.  To create an encrypted tunnel,
the student only has to execute openvpn on
the client and the server.

The student will observe both unencrypted 
and encrypted network traffic using
tcpdump on the router.

2. Performing the lab
The lab is started from the Labtainer working 
directory on your Docker-enabled host, e.g., a Linux VM.
From there, issue the command:

    ./start.py vpnlab

The resulting virtual terminals include a display of
these instructions, a terminal connected to a client,
and a terminal connected to a server.

To navigate this instruction, the arrow keys along with 
with the Space/Home/End/Page-Up/Page-Down keys are usable.
To exit navigation of this instruction, type 'q'.

3. Tasks
3.1 Use tcpdump on the router to display network traffic:
    sudo tcpdump -n -XX -i eth0

3.2 Use wget on the client to fetch the index.html file
    wget  http://<IPADDr>/index.html
Where <IPADDR> is the server network address, which you
can learn by running "ifconfig" on the server.

Observe the network traffic from tcpdump.  Note plain-text
html in the data stream.

3.3 Start the openvpn program on the server:
sudo openvpn --config server.conf --daemon

3.4 Start the openvpn program on the client:
sudo  openvpn --config client.conf --daemon

3.5 Use wget again, but this time using the server's
tunnel address, (which appears in interface "tun0"
of output from ifconfig).

Observe the network traffic in tcpdump.


4. Stop the Labtainer

When the lab is completed, or you'd like to stop working for a while, run

    ./stop.py vpnlab

from the host Labtainer working directory.  You can always restart the
Labtainer to continue your work.  When the Labtainer is stopped, a
zip file is created and copied to a location displayed by the stop.py
command.  When the lab is completed, send that zip file to the instructor.

