Title: Wireshark PCAP Analysis Lab Exercise

1. Background

This lab introduces analysis of PCAP files using the
wireshark tool.  You will analyze an existing PCAP, looking
for a specific invalid login attempt.  PCAP files contain
copies of network traffic stored in a format that can be processed
by various network analysis tools such as Wireshark and
tcpdump.  "PCAP" is short for "packet capture".

2. Performing the lab
The lab is started from the Labtainer working 
directory (labtainer-student) on your Linux host.
From there, issue the command:

    labtainer wireshark-intro

The resulting virtual terminals include a display of
these instructions and a terminal connected to a 
computer that contains the PCAP of interest.

To navigate this instruction, the arrow keys along with 
with the Space/Home/End/Page-Up/Page-Down keys are usable.
To exit navigation of this instruction, type 'q'.

3. Tasks

3.1. Run wireshark to perform PCAP Analysis

    a. Start a wireshark:
       wireshark
    b. Open 'telnet.pcap' file:
           File->Open
           select the 'telnet.pcap' file then click Open

Telnet is a communications protocol that allows a user to 
issue shell commands to a remote host. Telnet network 
traffic is not encrypted. Refer to the telnet lab for further background.

3.2. Search for the packet containing the invalid user "john" password inside a telnet data

    Locate the single frame which contains the password provided when the user
    attempted to login as the "john" user. 

    Note: one way is to apply a telnet.data filter

    Save the specified packet/frame as 'invalidpassword.pcap'.

4. Stop the Labtainer

When the lab is completed, or you'd like to stop working for a while, run

    stoplab wireshark-intro

from the host Labtainer working directory.  You can always restart the
Labtainer to continue your work.  When the Labtainer is stopped, a
zip file is created and copied to a location displayed by the stoplab
command.  When the lab is completed, send that zip file to the instructor.

