
Title: One-Way Hash Function and MAC Lab Exercise

1. Background

This lab exercise is intended to teach student about one-way hash
function and Message Authentication Code (MAC).

This lab exercise consists of the following tasks:
    a. Generate Message Digest and MAC
    b. Keyed Hash and HMAC
    c. Verifying randomness of one-way hash

This instruction file is viewed or showed by startup.sh as part of
the initial start.sh command.

To navigate this instruction, the arrow keys along with 
with the Space/Home/End/Page-Up/Page-Down keys are usable.
To exit navigation of this instruction, type 'q'.


2. Performing Lab Tasks

2.1. Open a terminal window and execute start.sh on Linux guest VM

Open a terminal (typically Ctrl-Alt-t combination should open a terminal window)
on a Linux system and run 'start.sh' on the Linux guest VM

The 'start.sh' script will startup the Linux container, pause 3 seconds, and
then open two more gnome-terminal window (one displaying this instruction and
another window attaching to the Linux container as user 'ubuntu'. Note the
different prompt on the window attached to the Linux container (compared to
the one on the Linux guest VM)

To close the terminal window (that is attached to the Linux container),
simply type 'exit'.

2.2. Generate Message Digest and MAC

On the terminal (attached to the Linux container), normal Linux commands 
should be available.

There is a pre-created file 'filetodigest.txt'

Follow the SEED labs instruction to create message digest for that file.

The wrapper script will capture stdin and stdout to files.

To close the terminal window (that is attached to the Linux container),
simply type 'exit'.

2.3. Stop Linux container LXCs

Open a terminal (typically Ctrl-Alt-t combination should open a terminal window)
on a Linux system and run 'stop.sh' on the Linux guest VM

As part of stopping the Linux container LXCs, a zip file will be created and
any zip files on the home directory will be copied to the shared folder
with the host.

Verify the zip files are successfully copied and then sent to instructor
from the shared folder/directory.


