Title: SSH Lab Exercise

1. Background

This Labtainer exercise explores the use of SSH
from a client computer to connect securely to a server
using a public/private key pair. In this example, mere
possition of the private key is sufficent to access the
remote host.  In general, password-protected private keys
are more secure.

2. Performing the lab
The lab is started from the Labtainer working 
directory on your Docker-enabled host, e.g., a Linux VM.
From there, issue the command:

    labtainer sshlab

The resulting virtual terminals include a display of
these instructions, a terminal connected to a client,
and a terminal connected to a server.

To navigate this instruction, the arrow keys along with 
with the Space/Home/End/Page-Up/Page-Down keys are usable.
To exit navigation of this instruction, type 'q'.

3. Tasks
3.1. Generate authentication keys (public/private RSA key pair)

On the client computer: ssh-keygen -t rsa
Note: when prompted, DO NOT enter a passphrase

This will create a private key and its corresponding public
key and place them in your .ssh directory.

3.2. Setup SSH on server for user to use authentication keys

The server's IP address is 172.20.0.3.  The user is "ubuntu",
and the user's password is also "ubuntu".

On the client computer:
     ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub 172.20.0.3
     When prompted to "...continue connecting (yes/no):, type "yes".
     Provide the user password when prompted.

The above step will copy the public key to the ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
file on the remote sever.

And that is it!

3.3. Connect using SSH and display a file on the server

On the client computer:
     a. ssh ubuntu@<server_ip>
        The user should be connected to the server
     b. After connected to the server: cat filetoview.txt
     c. exit 

4. Stop the Labtainer

When the lab is completed, or you'd like to stop working for a while, run

    stoplab sshlab

from the host Labtainer working directory.  You can always restart the
Labtainer to continue your work.  When the Labtainer is stopped, a
zip file is created and copied to a location displayed by the stoplab
command.  When the lab is completed, send that zip file to the instructor.

